Refine CSS Value Processing document (#40546)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_cascade/value_processing/index.md

For example, if you have the following declarations for `<p class="large">CSS is fun!</p>`, the second declaration wins because it has higher specificity. Both declarations have author origin, but the second selector has specificity of 0,1,1 while the first has 0,0,1:

```css
p {
  font-size: 1em;
}

p.large {
  font-size: 1.5em;
}
```

After cascading, the browser determines the [**cascaded value**](#cascaded_value) for each property on each element. This value is the one that will be used in the next processing stage; [defaulting](#defaulting).

### Defaulting

**Defaulting** ensures every property on every element has a value, even when no declarations apply. This involves:

- Using **inherited values** for [inherited properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Inheritance#inherited_properties)
- Using **initial values** for [non-inherited properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Inheritance#non-inherited_properties)

> - Applying **explicit defaulting keywords** ([`initial`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/initial), [`inherit`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/inherit), [`unset`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/unset), [`revert`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/revert), [`revert-layer`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/revert-layer))

Author: `inherit` and `initial` are only ones that are explicitly set by parser, as you mentioned.
However, explicit defaulting keywords also contributes to set specified values which is a result of Defaulting process here. (Each explicit defaulting keywords are also converted to proper specified values.)
So, I thought it's better to mention about explicit defaulting keywords conversion, not entirely deleting.
What do you think about: ?

## Property values

> Every CSS property's value comes from the declaration that wins the {{cssxref("Cascade")}} algorithm. When multiple declarations provide different property values for the same element, the declaration that ranks highest in the [Cascade Sorting Order](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade#cascading_order) gets applied.

Reviewer: `CSS/Cascade` is a redirect, plus `{{cssxref("Cascade")}}` would be rendered as code, so you should just use a markdown link instead. Also sentence case.

```suggestion
Every CSS property's value comes from the declaration that wins the [cascade](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade) algorithm. When multiple declarations provide different property values for the same element, the declaration that ranks highest in the [cascade sorting order](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade#cascading_order) gets applied.
```

Same below.

> Every CSS property's value comes from the declaration that wins the [cascade](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade) algorithm. When multiple declarations provide different property values for the same element, the declaration that ranks highest in the [cascade sorting order](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade#cascading_order) gets applied.

Author: Here, it sounded like property value comes because of only from the resolution of the specificity algorithm, but it's actually not.

> Every CSS property's value comes from the declaration that wins the [cascade](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade) algorithm. When multiple declarations provide different property values for the same element, the declaration that ranks highest in the [cascade sorting order](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade#cascading_order) gets applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every CSS property is set to its [cascaded value](#cascaded_value), which comes from the property declaration that ranks highest in the [cascade sorting order](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade#cascading_order) based on the [cascade algorithm](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade).
```
If the term is cascaded value, let's use that. And leave the "win" to that area and move the "multiple declarations" to the next paragraph.

Author: > Every CSS property is set to its [cascaded value](#cascaded_value),

Every CSS property doesn't necessarily have its cascaded value - if there are multiple declarations set, there's a cascaded value. 
see: https://www.w3.org/TR/css-cascade-4/#stages-examples

So, I mended the phrase a bit, embracing your suggestion!

Author: fixed in: [modify&split the first paragraph](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/40546/commits/118b89e3c623f62af28c98e557f32c3b437fecf3)

> Each property value comes from a single property name-value pair; a single value is applied from each property. Even if the value is a comma separated list of values, that list of values came from a single declaration.

Author: property = name + value

see: https://www.w3.org/TR/css-syntax-3/#declaration

> Each property value comes from a single property name-value pair; a single value is applied from each property. Even if the value is a comma separated list of values, that list of values came from a single declaration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even when there are multiple [declared values](#declared_value), with multiple declarations providing the same or different property values for the same element, each property value must still come from a single property name-value pair as only a single value is applied from each property. Even if the value is a comma-separated list of values, that list of values came from a single declaration.
```

> To determine which [declared value](#declared-value) is applied, the user agent gathers and processes all the styles from different sources, such as inline styles, and internal and external stylesheets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To determine which [declared value](#declared_value) is applied, the user agent gathers and processes all the styles from different sources, such as inline styles, and internal and external stylesheets.
```

Make sure all your anchor links are valid

> To determine which [declared value](#declared_value) is applied, the user agent gathers and processes all the styles from different sources, such as inline styles, and internal and external stylesheets.

Author: The term "specified value" was confusing in this context.
"specified value" comes after declaration value and cascaded value, but here it sounded like it comes before cascading.

https://www.w3.org/TR/css-cascade-4/#value-stages

> The [cascade](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade) determines which value should be applied when multiple conflicting styles target the same element. The [cascade algorithm](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Cascade#cascading_order) defines how user agents combine property values originating from different sources, scopes, and/or layers. When a selector matches an element, the property's [declared value](#declared_value) from the origin with the highest precedence gets applied, even if a selector from a lower precedence origin or layer has greater {{cssxref("specificity")}}.

Reviewer 2: let's link the terms "layer" and "origin"

Author: fixed in: [links for layers and origins](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/40546/commits/57d9f3511c4cfb4ff82cff0af87e6f04fc5d3e33)

Certain properties inherit values from their parent elements unless explicitly overridden. [Inheritance](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Inheritance) occurs when no style information exists for a specific property on an element. If the property is inherited, the value is set to the [computed value](#computed_value) of the parent element. If the property is not inherited, its value is set to the [initial value](#initial_value) for that element.

After applying the [cascading](#cascading) rules and defaulting values step by step, the browser ensures the visual presentation matches the processed CSS.

> ## Processing overview

Author: In order not to use "specified value" incorrectly (or to use "declared value" and "cascaded value" correctly), and in order to follow [Value Processing steps](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-cascade-4/#value-stages) based on the spec, the pre-description of three processing steps is essentially needed.

Before diving into the individual value stages, it's important to understand the three main phases that occur in value processing; [Filtering](#filtering), [Cascading](#cascading), and [Defaulting](#defaulting).

### Filtering

**Filtering** is the process of identifying all declarations that apply to each element. During this phase, the browser:

- Verifies that declarations belong to active stylesheets

> - Checks that property names are valid and recognized

Reviewer 2: can we merge #2 into #4? If the property name is not valid or recognized, it's invalid according to the browser (even if valid in supporting browsers. 

We may also want to link to the error processing (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_syntax/Error_handling) and link from there back to here.

- Validates that property values match the expected syntax
- Eliminates declarations that are syntactically invalid

> 

Author: fixed in: [make all code comments removed and replaced with prose explanations](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/40546/commits/10974c491fc927dedbae4ab871a2c400d3955fe6)

```css

> /* Valid declarations become declared values */
> p {
>   font-size: 1.25em; /* Valid */
>   colr: blue; /* Invalid property name - filtered out */
>   font-weight: bold; /* Valid */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
p {
  font-size: 1.25em;
  colr: blue;
  font-weight: bold;
```

}
```

> As a result of filtering, each element has zero or more [**declared values**](#declared_value) for each property. These declared values are the starting point for the next processing stages; [Cascading](#cascading).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result of filtering, each element has zero or more [**declared values**](#declared_value) for each property. These declared values are the starting point for the next processing stages; [cascading](#cascading).
```

font-size: 2em; /* Author origin, specificity: 0,1,1 */
```

If there are no declared values for a property, there is no cascaded value, which means the value will be determined by the [defaulting](#defaulting) process.

### Specified value

The **specified value** is the result of the [defaulting](#defaulting) process. It is guaranteed to exist for every property on every element. The specified value is determined as follows:

1. If there is a [cascaded value](#cascaded-value), it becomes the specified value.
2. If there is _no_ [cascaded value](#cascaded-value) and the property is inherited, the specified value is the [computed value](#computed-value) of the parent element.
3. If there is _no_ [cascaded value](#cascaded-value) and the property is _not_ inherited, the specified value is the property's [initial value](#initial-value).

In our example, since we have a [cascaded value](#cascaded-value) of `1.25em`, this becomes the specified value:

```css
/* Result of defaulting - Specified Value */
font-size: 2em;
```

For properties without [cascaded values](#cascaded-value), the [defaulting](#defaulting) process fills in the gaps:

```css
/* Example of inherited property */

> color: /* inherits from parent's computed value */

Reviewer: ?
